Papers SS 2016
==============

.. note::

    The PDFs of the papers can be downloaded by followink this `link`_
    (password protected).

You should have received the password by mail (if not, contact me).

.. _link: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/z4e6cz5rgjnq1rb/AAB7YX-Y8sTwG_8UvitgIUNYa?dl=0


Next paper
----------

**No seminar on June 14th!**

**On June 21st**, Marlis will lead the discusssion about the following paper:

- Hofer, M., Nemec, J., Cullen, N. J. & Weber, M. (Submitted). Evaluating
  predictor strategies for regression-based downscaling with a focus on
  glacierized mountain environments. Submitted to J. Climate.

**On June 28th**, we will all discuss the following paper:

- Farinotti, D., Pistocchi, A., & Huss, M. (2016). From dwindling ice to
  headwater lakes: could dams replace glaciers in the European Alps?
  Environmental Research Letters, 11(5), 054022.

Suggested papers
----------------

- Burke, E. E., & Roe, G. H. (2014). The absence of memory in the climatic
  forcing of glaciers. Climate Dynamics, 42(5-6), 1335–1346. (Fabien)

- Deconto, R. M., & Pollard, D. (2016). Contribution of Antarctica to past
  and future sea-level rise. Nature, 531(7596), 591–597. (Fabien)

- Hoinkes, H. C. (1968). Glacier variation and weather.
  Journal of Glaciology, 7(49), 3–19. (Fabien)

- Kerschner, H. (2000). Synoptic climatology of Eastern Alpine glacier
  behavior, 1966-1990. 26th International Conference on Alpine Meteorology,
  11-15 September 2000, (dd), 1–12. (Georg)

- Farinotti, D., & Huss, M. (2013). An upper-bound estimate for the accuracy
  of glacier volume-area scaling. Cryosphere, 7(6), 1707–1720. (Fabien)

- Insel, N., Poulsen, C. J., & Ehlers, T. a. (2010). Influence of the Andes
  Mountains on South American moisture transport, convection, and
  precipitation. Climate Dynamics, 35, 1477–1492. (Georg)

- Mordret, A., Mikesell, T. D., Harig, C., Lipovsky, B. P., & Prieto, A. (2015).
  Monitoring South-West Greenland ’ s ice sheet melt with ambient seismic noise.
  Science Advances, (May), 1–11. (Markus)

- Mölg, T., & Kaser, G. (2011). A new approach to resolving
  climate-cryosphere relations: Downscaling climate dynamics to glacier-scale
  mass and energy balance without statistical scale linking. Journal of
  Geophysical Research, 116(D16), D16101. (Federico)

- Roe, G. H., Feldl, N., Armour, K. C., Hwang, Y.-T., &
  Frierson, D. M. W. (2015). The remote impacts of climate feedbacks on
  regional climate predictability. Nature Geoscience, 8(2), 135–139. (Fabien)

- Themeßl, M. J., Gobiet, A., & Heinrich, G. (2011). Empirical-statistical
  downscaling and error correction of regional climate models and its impact
  on the climate change signal. Climatic Change, 112(2), 449–468. (Fabien)

- Wilks, D. S. (2016). “The stippling shows statistically significant
  gridpoints”: How Research Results are Routinely Overstated and
  Over-interpreted, and What to Do About It. Bulletin of the American
  Meteorological Society, BAMS–D–15–00267.1. (Ben)

Past papers
-----------

**2016-05-07 (Anna)**
    Rowan, A. V., Egholm, D. L., Quincey, D. J., & Glasser, N. F. (2015).
    Modelling the feedbacks between mass balance, ice flow and debris transport
    to predict the response to climate change of debris-covered glaciers in the
    Himalaya. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 430, 427–438..

**2016-05-31 (Eva)**
        Deconto, R. M., & Pollard, D. (2016). Contribution of Antarctica to past
        and future sea-level rise. Nature, 531(7596), 591–597.

**2016-05-17 (Hannes)**
    Neukom, R., Rohrer, M., Calanca, P., Salzmann, N., Huggel, C., Acuña, D.,
    Morales, M. S. (2015). Facing unprecedented drying of the Central Andes?
    Precipitation variability over the period AD 1000–2100. Environ. Res. Lett,
    10(10), 84017–84017.

**2016-05-10 (All)**
    Nuzzo, R. (2015). Fooling Ourselves. Nature, 526, 182–185.
    Knutti, R. (2010). The end of model democracy? Climatic Change, 102(3), 395–404.

**2016-05-03 (Federico)**
    Huss, M., Sold, L., Hoelzle, M., Stokvis, M., Salzmann, N., Farinotti, D.,
    & Zemp, M. (2013). Towards remote monitoring of sub-seasonal glacier mass
    balance. Annals of Glaciology, 54(63), 75–83.

**2016-04-26 (Markus)**
    Pohl, S., Garvelmann, J., Wawerla, J., & Weiler, M. (2014). Potential of a
    low-cost sensor network to understand the spatial and temporal dynamics of a
    mountain snow cover. Water Resources Research, 50(3), 2533–2550.

**2016-04-12 (Johannes)**
    Gutmann, E., Barstad, I., Clark, M., Arnold, J., & Rasmussen, R. (2016).
    The Intermediate Complexity Atmospheric Research Model (ICAR). Journal of
    Hydrometeorology, 17(3), 957–973.

**2016-04-05 (Fabien)**
    Zekollari, H., & Huybrechts, P. (2015). On the climate–geometry imbalance,
    response time and volume–area scaling of an alpine glacier: insights from a
    3-D flow model applied to Vadret da Morteratsch, Switzerland. Annals of
    Glaciology, 56(70), 51–62.
