Papers WS 2016
==============

.. note::

    The PDFs of the papers can be downloaded by followink this `link`_
    (password protected).

You should have received the password by mail (if not, contact me).

.. _link: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/z4e6cz5rgjnq1rb/AAB7YX-Y8sTwG_8UvitgIUNYa?dl=0


Next paper
----------

**On November 22nd, Maria is going to present the following paper:**

- Garreaud, R. (1999): Multiscale Analysis of the Summertime Precipitation over
  the Central Andes, Mon. Weather Rev., 127(5), 901-921.


Suggested papers
----------------

- Burke, E. E., & Roe, G. H. (2014). The absence of memory in the climatic
  forcing of glaciers. Climate Dynamics, 42(5-6), 1335–1346. (Fabien)

- Hoinkes, H. C. (1968). Glacier variation and weather.
  Journal of Glaciology, 7(49), 3–19. (Fabien)

- Kerschner, H. (2000). Synoptic climatology of Eastern Alpine glacier
  behavior, 1966-1990. 26th International Conference on Alpine Meteorology,
  11-15 September 2000, (dd), 1–12. (Georg)

- Farinotti, D., & Huss, M. (2013). An upper-bound estimate for the accuracy
  of glacier volume-area scaling. Cryosphere, 7(6), 1707–1720. (Fabien)

- Roe, G. H., Feldl, N., Armour, K. C., Hwang, Y.-T., &
  Frierson, D. M. W. (2015). The remote impacts of climate feedbacks on
  regional climate predictability. Nature Geoscience, 8(2), 135–139. (Fabien)

- Themeßl, M. J., Gobiet, A., & Heinrich, G. (2011). Empirical-statistical
  downscaling and error correction of regional climate models and its impact
  on the climate change signal. Climatic Change, 112(2), 449–468. (Fabien)

- Wilks, D. S. (2016). “The stippling shows statistically significant
  gridpoints”: How Research Results are Routinely Overstated and
  Over-interpreted, and What to Do About It. Bulletin of the American
  Meteorological Society, BAMS–D–15–00267.1. (Fabien)

Past papers
-----------

**2016-10-25 (Miriam)**
    Sulca, J., Vuille, M., Silva, Y. and Takahashi, K.: Teleconnections between
    the Peruvian Central Andes and Northeast Brazil during Extreme Rainfall Events
    in Austral Summer, J. Hydrometeorol., 17(2), 499–515, 2016.

**2016-11-08 (Max)**
    Insel, N., Poulsen, C. J., & Ehlers, T. a. (2010). Influence of the Andes
    Mountains on South American moisture transport, convection, and
    precipitation. Climate Dynamics, 35, 1477–1492.

**2016-11-15 (Michaela)**
    Huybers, K., Rupper, S. and Roe, G. H. (2016): Response of closed basin lakes
    to interannual climate variability, Clim. Dyn., 46(11–12), 3709–3723.
